## Method
### Data collection
For data collection, our inital purpose was to collect a manageable sample of videos and their related metadata and comments from an intersection of topics related to hunting with air-rifle and air-rifle market in Vietnam. Ackownledging the constraint of time and human resources, we decided to analyze only 50 representative videos. To leverage computation power to accomplish the tasks automatically, we used Youtube API through two python packages, namely, 'pytube' [citation] (for searching and querying Youtube videos) and 'pyyoutube' [citation] (for extracting Youtube video metadata). Moreover, we used scripting function of Google Sheets to extract comments and populate them into seperated sheets.

For the collection of 50 sampling videos, to avoid any bias towards any specific kind targeted animals (e.g., birds, squirrels, etc), we firstly searched for videos from two search queries "pcp săn bắn" (meaning "pcp hunting" in Vietnamese) and "pcp săn bắt" (meaning "pcp hunting and capture" in Vietnamese). We chose these two queries because it covered general theme of hunting and air-rifle (by doing extensive content exploratory on Youtube we found that 'pcp' is the word standing for air-rifle in Vietnam). We retrieved the first 20 videos from each result. After removing duplications, there were 34 unique videos left. We then extracted the list of tags used by those 34 videos and picked the one that appeared the most, which was "pcp condor" (appeared 5 times). This selection helped us widen the search while maintaining the similarity among the first 34 videos. We repeated the first step in which we collected the first 20 videos resulted from that keyword, which added 20 more unique videos. In total, we found 54 videos around the theme pcp and hunting. After that, we collected the list of unique channels of those 54 videos, which resulted in 48 unique channels. Next, we manually removed channels that did not meet any of the three criteria: (1) videos produced by Vietnamese in Vietnam, (2) authentic content (i.e., not a reup), and (3) related to/focused on hunting with rifles. The cleansing returned 36 unique targeted channels. We then populated all videos from those 36 channels into a spreadsheet, which resulted in 3081 videos. After that, we shuffled and pick a sample of 50 videos for analysis.

For the collection of metadata, we collected the following video metadata with pyyoutube:  video title, video id, video url, video description, number of likes, number of views, published time, Youtube topic categories. As Youtube disabled number of dislikes from public view on November 10th, 2021 and from API on December 13th, 2021 [citation], we had to use a Firefox add-on named Return YouTube Dislike (RYD) [https://returnyoutubedislike.com/] to estimate the number of dislikes of that videos. As described by the developers, they used a combination of dislike archival to return dislikes of archived videos or extrapolation for videos that has not been archived. We extracted the dislikes on January 3rd, 2021, so it was likely that the dislikes were the extrapolatory result.

For the collection of comments, we used Apps Script extension of Google Sheet to crawl Youtube comments and populate them into different sheets. We extracted a total number of 960 comments from 50 videos.

### Data annotation
We classified 50 videos into different categories to investigate the intention of the uploaders and interactions of Youtube viewers with activities related to rifles (e.g, showcase the air-rifle, demo of using by shooting some animals). We observed that there were two types of uploader, namely, seller (who advertised for the air-rifle and included contacts for purchasing in the video) and non-seller (who used the air-rifle but did not aim to sell it). We also discovered that videos featuring killing of animals attracted more views and interactions than videos that only talked about rifles. Thus, we categorized a video content into one of the following six categories ([Appendix]): (1) seller who showcases the air-rifle, (2) seller who showcases the air-rifle with dead animals, (3) seller who demos the air-rifle by shooting at non-animal targets, (4) seller who demos the air-rifle by shooting at animals, (5) non-seller who uses the air-rifle to shoot at the animal, and (6) non-seller who uses the air-rifle but shoots at non-animal targets. Besides, we also tagged the air-rifle type (e.g., FX, Condor, Benjamin, etc.) and accessories featured in the videos. All of these annotation was done by one person.

In terms of comments, we annotated each one based on the topic. We noticed that keyword-based tagging lead to misleading topics, so we relied on the kind of information provided in the comments. [example] Since blind categorization was a drawback of keyword-based annotation, we decided not to use statistical methods that evolved around keywords like LDA for this task. Instead, we did it manually. There are four annotators involved in this task. The first annotator decided the groups through a continual process. They went through a sample of collected comments and figured out the main topics of discussion of each. When they found a set of topics that were similar, they put them into a bigger group. They kept doing that until they found the sets of categories were reasonable. Then, they discussed the set of categories to the other three annotators and had refinement if necessary. When an agreement was reached, the other three annotators started annotating all comments. When they found a comment that should have belong to a new category, they proposed and new category might be added. There were 13 categories in the finalized set ([Appendix]), namely, price, where/how to buy, the air-rifle, accessories, contact exchange, shooting skills / techniques, breaking law, this [shit] is purely cruel, this shit is purely illegal, content, target animal info, greetings / networking, shop feedback.

To measure the biodiversity impact of the practice of hunting with air-rifle, we identified the species that were injured or killed in the videos. We selected from the content categories videos that featured hunting (category (2), (4), and (5)). There were 13 videos in total. We watched those videos and identified the species that were shot (injured or killed). The identification was done with the help of a conservationist working for Fauna & Flora International - Vietnam Programe. There were 72 animals that were shot in 13 videos.

### Data analysis
Since the number of data points was small (50 data points), we only calculated descriptive statistics and visualized them in graphs. For comments, we calculated the percentage of each topics to see what users often discussed in the comments thread. We also calculated the proportion of comments pro and agaist the action in the video to understand the awareness of viewers with this kind of illegality. In order to measure the size of air-rifle and hunting community on Youtube, we counted the number of unique commentors.

We compared the viewer interaction with different types of contents through likes and dislikes. To account for the fact that more views lead to more likes and dislikes, we normalized them by taking the proportion of number of likes and dislikes over number of view. 

To understand the taste of air-rifle by sellers and non-sellers, we calculated the proportion of each air-rifle type featured in their videos.

We also analyzed the proportion of Youtube topic categories assigned by the uploaders to find out how they defined their contents. Then, we chose the most significant categories and examine [...]


Moreover, we also aggregated the uploaded frequency by years to estimate the trends of air-rifle and hunting in Youtube Vietnam 
Additionally, to measure the impact of using air-rifle to biodiversity, we calculated the frequency of each targeted species to figure out groups of species that were targeted the most, and favorite species of sellers and non-sellers.